Update PWA Install docs (#5122)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/progressive-web-apps/customize-install/index.md

  </figcaption>
</figure>

Installability is one of the biggest advantages of a Progressive Web App.
Installing your PWA can make it easier for users to find and use. Once
installed, it looks and behaves like every other installed app that the user
has.

> But, some users don't realize that they can install your PWA, so it can be
> helpful to provide an in-app experience to promote and enable installation of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But, some users don't realize that they can install your PWA, so it
helps to provide an in-app experience to promote and enable installation of
```

your PWA.

<div id="promote-installation" class="w-clearfix"></div>

## PWA Install Flow {: #install-flow }

> Let's take a look at the PWA install flow for Chrome and Edge, how you can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the PWA install flow for Chrome and Edge, how you can
```

Reviewer: * Omit needless words (Shrunk and White)
* Avoid forms of 'we' (Our own handbook)

provide your own in-app experience, and the best practices you should be
following for both desktop and mobile.

> 1. Browser checks the [installability criteria][criteria]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The browser checks the [installability criteria][criteria].
```

Reviewer: Please make these complete sentences.

   * Browser shows install confirmation dialog.
   * User clicks confirm or dismiss on install confirmation dialog.
   * Event logged to analytics. (Optional)
3. Browser installs PWA
   * Switches to standalone window.
   * Browser fires `appinstalled` event.
   * Page handles `appinstalled` event & hides the in-app install elements(s).
   * Event logged to analytics. (Optional)

{% Aside %}
  The `beforeinstallprompt` event, and the `appinstalled` event have been moved
  from the Web App Manifest spec to their own
  [incubator](https://github.com/WICG/beforeinstallprompt). The Chrome team
  remains committed to supporting them, and has no plans to remove or deprecate
  support. Google's Web DevRel team continues to recommend using them to
  provide a customized install experience.
{% endAside %}

### Page handles the `beforeinstallprompt` event {: #beforeinstallprompt }

If your Progressive Web App meets the required [installation criteria][criteria],
the browser fires a `beforeinstallprompt` event. The `beforeinstallprompt`
event tells the PWA that it's installable, and that it can show the in-app
install experience.

{% Aside 'caution' %}

> To prevent confusion with your users, don't show your own custom install

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent user confusion, don't show your own custom install
```

experience until the `beforeinstallprompt` event has been fired.
{% endAside %}

Save a reference to the event, and update your user interface to indicate
that the user can install your PWA. And, so we can measure the effectiveness

> of the install flow, log it to analytics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the install flow, and log it to analytics.
```

```js
// Initialize deferredPrompt for use later to show browser install prompt.
let deferredPrompt;
// Initialize installSource, used by analytics to identify which in-app
// install element is clicked.
let installSource;

window.addEventListener('beforeinstallprompt', (e) => {
  // Optionally, prevent the mini-infobar from appearing on mobile.
  e.preventDefault();
  // Stash the event so it can be triggered later.
  deferredPrompt = e;
  // Update UI notify the user they can install the PWA.
  showInstallPromotion();
  // Optionally, send analytics event that PWA install promo was shown.

>   ga('send', 'event', {

Reviewer: Should this function have a more formal name?

    eventCategory: 'pwa-install',
    eventAction: 'promo-shown',
    nonInteraction: true,
  });
});
```

For consistency, all the analytics install events use the same category,
`pwa-install`. In this case, the action is `promo-shown`. And set
`non-interaction` to `true`, since this event wasn't generated by a user
action.

{% Aside %}
There are many different [patterns](/promote-install/) that you can use to
notify the user your app can be installed and provide an in-app install
flow, for example, a button in the header, an item in the navigation menu,
or an item in your content feed.
{% endAside %}

> ### Page handles click on in-app install element {: #click-in-app-install }

Reviewer: I'm having trouble processing this title. Part of the problem is two sequential prepositions (on-in). Grammatically it's fine. A prepositional phrase can function as an adjective, which is what 'in-app' is doing.

```js
buttonInstall.addEventListener('click', async () => {

>   // Identify which button was clicked, this should be unique for each button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Identify which button was clicked. This should be unique for each button.
```

  installSource = 'button-header-blue';
  // Hide the in-app install promotion.
  hideInstallPromotion();
  // Show the install prompt.
  deferredPrompt.prompt();
  // Wait for the user to respond to the prompt.
  const { outcome } = await deferredPrompt.userChoice;
  // Optionally, send analytics event with outcome of user choice.
  ga('send', 'event', {
    eventCategory: 'pwa-install',
    eventAction: 'promo-clicked',
    eventLabel: installSource,
    eventValue: outcome === 'accepted' ? 1 : 0,
  });
  // Clear installSource if the user clicked dismiss.
  if (outcome === 'dismissed') {
    installSource = null;
  }
  // Clear deferredPrompt since it can't be used again.
  deferredPrompt = null;
});
```

The `userChoice` property is a promise that resolves with the user's choice.

> If the user clicks cancel, or dismiss, the install stops, the browser returns

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the user clicks cancel or dismiss, the install stops, the browser returns
```

to step one, and the flow starts all over again. Otherwise, the browser
installs the PWA.

> If you're logging the event to analytics, like before, use category

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're logging the event to analytics, like before, use the category
```

`pwa-install`, but this time, the action should be `promo-clicked`, indicating
the user clicked on the in-app install promotion. Use  `installSource` for the
label to identify which install element the user clicked to start the install.

> And set the event `value` to either `1` or `0`, depending on whether the user

Reviewer: Contrary to popular opinion, you can start a sentence with 'and'. You can also overuse it, which is why writing teachers discourage it. (It's a best practice that contributes to variety in sentence structure for goal of holding reader interest.) This is the third occurrence of this I've found and it's one of at least four. I would remove most of them. The same advice applies to 'but'.

clicked accept or dismiss. In analytics, this will tell us what percentage of
users completed the install for that specific promo.

#### Two quick notes about prompt

> First, to help prevent spamming users, calling `prompt` requires a user
> gesture. And second, you can only call `prompt` once. But, as mentioned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, to help prevent spamming users, calling `prompt()` requires a user
gesture. And second, you can only call `prompt()` once. But, as mentioned
```

earlier, if the user clicks cancel, the flow returns to step one and you'll
get a brand new `beforeinstallprompt` event. This is also why it's important to
hide the custom install elements in this step. If for some reason, the
`beforeinstallprompt` event isn't fired again, you don't want the install
elements visible.

{% Aside 'codelab' %}
[Make a site installable using the beforeinstallprompt event](/codelab-make-installable).
{% endAside %}

### Page handles `appinstalled` event {: #detect-install }

You can use the `userChoice` property to determine if the user installed
your app from within your user interface. But, if the user installs your
PWA from the address bar, other browser component, or from a different tab or
window, `userChoice` won't help.

Instead, the page should listen for the `appinstalled` event. It is fired
whenever your PWA is installed, no matter what mechanism is used, and

> if more than one tab/window is open for the PWA, the `appinstalled` event is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
if more than one tab or window is open for the PWA, the `appinstalled` event is
```
